From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 45. Recorded live
Friday, December 17th, 2010. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by Telerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with John backdoor about
moving from small companies to
large corporations. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And today I'm sitting down
with my good friend, John
batt, Dorf in his home,
and John and I actually
worked together in banking for
years and years. Did I,
did I hook you up
with the job he actually
did. It was a kind
of a weird thing. I
was leaving or working for
a small agency and you
know, it was rough economic
times and they said to
me, one day, we're going
to let you go in
a month. And I kind
of had already seen the
writing on the wall. So
I'd been talking to you
about finding a more stable
company. And the day that
I got laid off or
essentially told I was being
laid off, I got an
offer from which then got
bought by, which then got
bought by when I was,
gosh, I started out there.
I want to say it
was a couple of hundred
people by the time I
left, it was four or
500. Yeah, I think we
peaked around three 50 or
400 or so. What's it
like to go from a
company that's a couple hundred
people to a couple of
tens of thousands of people?
Well, what's funny is I've
always worked for small companies.
And when people listening to
this show here at small
companies, they probably think a
couple of hundred people, but
I mean like 20 people,
small, like, like my day
would be starting development. And
then, Oh my gosh, something
would happen to the servers
and the development would get
put on a hold. And
even though we had a
system administrator, it was like,
the developers would get involved
in. And maybe even the
person that's like second in
charge would be running in
to put their 2 cents in
and say what's going on.
But at a bigger company,
even 300 people, which still
pretty small, it's not like
that. And then when you
scale up to even bigger,
it's less and less like
you're further removed from those
kinds of things. Is that
because the bigger, the bigger
you get, the more people
there are to have a
specific job or anything like
of a small company, everyone
owns everything. There's that notion
like an agile and agile
methodology of collective ownership. Like
we all own The code.
We all own the system.
And in a small company,
you know, you have access
to the passwords on the
production machine and you can
run in there and save
it just as much as
the CTO can. Totally. And,
and that's, that's like a
hard transition to make to
when you leave that kind
of small entrepreneurial spirit, you
know, you can really affect
change, you know, about in
a small company, you know,
Oh, we're pitching this client.
And if our company gets
us, it means maybe it
means new servers for everybody
or a new desktop machine
or, or better benefits or,
or something really tangible to
you. So you're really vested
to get it. But once
you move to a bigger
company, you don't really it's
like stuff just kind of
comes down to you. Oh,
you know, you're going to
be working on this project
for the next six months.
And you don't really, I
mean, press releases are kind
of like one of the
ways I hear about things
as bad as that sounds,
but you know, it's not,
it's just the culture. It's
just the way it is.
It's not necessarily a negative
thing, but yeah, you don't
really, you're not exposed to
things the way you are
in a smaller company. Before,
before I worked at Microsoft,
I think I was like
employee number 25, small what
I like to call boutique
consultancy. And what I liked
about that company so much
was it was two guys
on the company and they
were 50 50 and we
would have company meetings and
we'd go over the balance
sheet. Like, let me think
about that. Right. We would
have a company meeting and
you could literally everyone in
the company could basically know
the finances and you'd say,
yeah, we just got, we
just got the Acme website
job and that's going to
bring in $50,000 to the
company. And like you just
said, and we'll all be
able to get new desks.
And it was totally visible.
So everything not just from,
from development through testing to
production, but from the sales
pipeline, like any employee could
log into the sales pipeline
and see what was going
on. And we could see
that we really need to
get this to hit the
rent this month, et cetera,
et cetera. I worked at
a place in Seattle. That
was probably, it was my
first job out of college.
And it was a little
tiny. I think 30 person
company called site works. They
were bought up by conglomerate
probably about three or four
years after I worked there
or left. But day one
was my first day was
all right, put your desk
together and build your computer.
And my desk was literally
a door with four Ikea
legs and it was cool.
And there was no cubicles.
There was no walls. There
was dogs running around the
office. And one of the
big things I remember was
when we got a really
huge, it was on Microsoft,
I think windows, media, player
account, or something, doing some
of the corporate marketing for
them was that everybody got
air on chairs and that
was like a huge deal.
So the other really funny
thing about that company was
day one coming in, fresh
out of college. I mean,
I'd done some web development
in college for the university
and for various offices at
the university, they asked me
to sent me and this
other guy down who I'm
actually still friends with. And
they said to me, looked
at me and said, which
project would you like to
work on? We have the
Warehouser corporate website or YouTube
world pop Mart to our
website. That's a really hard
decision. Yeah. So When you
describe the putting together of
the desk, I was over
talking to Alex Payne who works
on thanks simple. And they're
at a, an incubator downtown
Portland and incubator is basically
a big warehouse where a
bunch of companies all go
together. So like, if you
and I were going to
go and spin off our
own company, we would call
them up and we'd say,
you know, get the hookup
pay four or 500 bucks
a month. They give us
like a big wood door
and two saw horses. That's
hilarious. And that would be
your desk. And I think
that they do that, not
just because they're, they're trying
to be, be inexpensive, but
there's just something about the
legend of a startup. And
the two saw horses and
the big door for a
desk that gets people like
let's keep it fast and
lean and focus. You know
what I mean? It's cool.
And it's, it's funny. Cause
I wouldn't have imagined that
would be the first thing
I was doing at my
first job. But looking back
over the years, that's probably
one of the favorite places
that I've worked at over
the last 10, 15 years.
I think it was, it
was, I, I think I
was still at step around
nine. Let me see, what
is this? 2010. I want
to say 95, 96, we
were working on this website
called eight hundred.com. I remember
that, Oh yeah. Eight hundred.com.
It was like pre, amazon.com.
They were, they did this
deal once about three DVDs
for a dollar and we
didn't actually have a space.
So we were borrowing space
from someone else. And there
was a time where some
of us were literally sitting
on the stairs because there
were no desks. So we
had like, you know, walk
to the left because everyone's
on the right side of
the staircase spiral staircase. And
we're all just kind of
sitting there. Wow. And being,
you know, using conference rooms
as war rooms, just because
that's the only space that
you can have. One of
the things that I've noticed
about a little company to
big company transitions is whether
or not you have control
of your own computer. Oh
yeah. That that's constantly a
point of contention. That's a
very politically correct way of
putting it. So, So at
the company I work at
now, I mean the majority
of the company is still
on XP. So yeah. There's
lots of people that would
prefer to be on a
newer operating system and have
newer software. But sometimes that's
kind of, one of the
things that you trade off
working for a big company
is that the it people
who are completely awesome. And
the two it guys we
have are probably the best
it guys I've worked with.
And it's not necessarily their
decision, but as a company,
you know, they're, this is
our direction. This is what
we're saying. And obviously I
think they're, they're making strides
to move forward with that,
but that kind of change
doesn't happen overnight. Whereas a
small company it's like, you
can say, Hey, the beta
for windows seven is out.
I put on my machine
and the response would be,
yeah, but you're responding. If
it doesn't work out, you've
got to put whatever else
was back on there. And
if you're up til three
in the morning doing it,
that's kind of your deal.
Yeah. I recognize that controls
have to be put in
place for, you know, corporate
governance and laws and Federalists
and that. But I remember
that one of the most
uncomfortable transitions between the small
boutique consultancy and what was
then called was that I
couldn't add a machine to
the domain without filling out
a form. So like if
I brought a machine in,
I would have to go
and ask permission and I
have to get the it
guy to walk over to
my desk as I'm, you
know, installing windows and type
in his password. So he
could add machines to the
domain. But it seems though
that there's a, there's kind
of this, this hump, if
you imagine on the, on
the far left of a
graph, you've got 20 people
in the room and you
can point across the room
and see the domain controller
you go like, yeah, that's
the server right there. And
then you, as you get
bigger and bigger, you can
say, well, that closet is
where the servers are. Right.
And you get bigger and
bigger, then you say, well,
that room is where the
servers are. At some point
you're like, I have no
idea where the server is,
What it's even called. But
see, what's interesting is that
you actually know your it
guys, like you've seen them.
Yeah. I've worked at Microsoft
three years and I have
never seen an it guy.
Like I know that they're
there. I've never seen one
in person, but I have
the ability to add a
machine to the domain. So
it's like, there's this, there's
this hump that you could
over where it's like at
a certain size, maybe 500
people. It's the most restrictive,
like they're super, super paranoid
and they've grown up in
the only way that they
know how. And the only
thing that they know how
to do is increased control
by clamping down and allowing
you to do effectively nothing.
Microsoft figures that their network
infrastructures set up so well,
and there's not much damage
you can do adding a
PC. What they've done is
because they're so big, they,
they have scaled the automation.
It's so incredibly automated that
they'll prevent you from hurting
yourself. So for example, if
I add a machine to
the domain right away, that
machine is controlled by the
group policy, right? So, you
know, it has to, it
won't be allowed on the
internet without, or even on
the intranet without all of
these appropriate firewalls and antivirus.
So tools and things that
get pushed down automatically, you
have constant kind of security
checks and compliance. It's so
automated. It's actually automated so
well that it doesn't hurt
so bad. Like it might
sound difficult. But I got
an email actually a couple
of days ago that there's
a patch for some Adobe
flash thing that I didn't
know, I didn't have on
one of my machines I'd
forgotten about. So it's like,
it's very, very clean, formal
email. You were the owner
of this machine and we
have detected that you do
not have this patch. You
have two days to install
this patch or we'll take
you off the network. Oh,
wow. So it's the kind
of email that you would
probably get from one of
your two guys except it's
automated. So I think what
happens is after four or
500 people, when things are
out there, most restrictive, somebody
says we need to automate
this. Right. And then things
become slightly less restrictive To
alleviate all the work they
have to do to, to
make those kinds of things
happen. Yeah, Exactly. So being
able to add a machine,
you know, someone decided, I
presume at Microsoft that being
able to add a machine
to the network is important,
but they tied it to
you as an employee, such
that they know what I
have. Like they have like
this automatic asset system, they
know what, what phones I
have, what computers I have.
And as they, as they
move around, they can kind
of shut you off the
network. And they can say,
well, that's, that's, Hanselman's remote
cart, his remote video cart.
And he doesn't have this
patch and we've warned him
three times. So he's out,
But you're not out forever.
It's you patch it. Yeah.
And then you're back on
you go back and actually
they're there so fine grain.
I remember. Do you remember
the code red virus? The
whole, yeah. So years and
years ago, I was actually
as a vendor in, so
I was on campus at
Microsoft razzing into their network
and we were actually local.
I was physically there and
I was there actually, I
think it was, you've all
Lowery, who is a, he's
an MVP and a really
well known speaker and stuff.
And you've all we were
in there for like SQL
server, some kind of a,
of a design review. I
don't remember what it was,
but what I remember distinctly
was that suddenly we're sitting
in this conference room, we're
having our meeting and the
network goes out and I'm
like, okay, I can't get
on the web. I have
no, I have no, I
have no email. This is
like six, seven years ago,
whenever code red happened or
Ninda. And then two guys
walk in the room and
they say, someone in here
has a virus and we've
shut access to this room.
Wow. Off. So we did,
I thought that it went
out at the entire building
or whatever, or the entire
internet went down. Right. Cause
this that's what it feels
like, but they had a
granularity where they detected, you
know, evil. I just want
to imagine there was like
this three D model that
spun around and the room
lit up and flash red.
And there was like this
voice that was like dispatched,
you know, security team, alpha
two sector four. It's exactly
just like, like that, that
Jurassic park thing where the
girls, like, this is a
Unix machine. I know how
to use this. I know
this. Yeah. The two guys
walked in, they shut the
room off. So they actually
knew at the port level.
Wow. And that, that was
actually the only time I'd
ever seen anyone. Actually, I
was just thinking about that.
I had said before, I'd
never seen an it guy.
That was one time. And
I haven't seen one since
they've always been kind of
nameless, faceless aliases that I
talked to. I'm trying to
get access for my video
conferencing system. And I've been
having all these interactions with
all these different people, talking
about a port, a specific
port that I need enabled
on a specific physical port
on the wall. And there's
a security review and dah,
dah, dah. And even though
it's presence, the telepresence thing,
Damien Edwards, and I need
to get access to a
specific TCP port. So I
fill out a form it's
all automated. It goes to
an automated system and then
a human gets involved. They
did a security analysis and
it's not just for one
machine to get access to
one port, but literally a
port in the wall in
my office and building 42
is going to have access
to this particular port. And
it's all very, very automated.
And apparently it's tied to
my, my employment contract, such
that if I abused my
privileges, having access to this,
this port, outside the firewall,
then they can fire me.
Wow. Yeah. I wonder how
that would happen. Like if
you're doing, if you're living
in, if you're in a
small company, I mean, I
just remembered saying, Hey, I
want that port open to
the internet. Right? Yeah. Nobody
would even really ask why.
Right. They would just be
like, Oh yeah, I can
do that. Yeah. But the
interesting thing is that that's
when the companies get nailed,
right. It's right. At that
point where they're starting to
grow. Right. That first company
in Seattle, when we got
our T one, that was
a big deal. And I
remember a couple of times
of somebody going, Oh no,
I think we have a
virus. And the solution was
run to this, run to
the server room and unplugged
the internet. Yeah, exactly. I
mean, wild West, right? We
didn't have firewalls. We didn't
have Hi. This is Scott
coming to you from another
place in time. Are you
using agile practices to manage
your software development? There's lots
of tools in the market
that manage the steps of
a project, but most of
them focus on individual roles,
get ready for a solution
that caters for the success
of the whole team. Guys
at Tellerik introduced team pulse.
It's an agile project management
tool. That'll help you gather
ideas, estimate plan, track progress
in a common workspace. Finally
companies, regardless of their size
can use a lightweight and
convenient tool that makes all
the stakeholders work as a
United team. Even if they're
in different countries by combining
intuitive user interface and the
power server light team poles
removes the roadblocks that you
typically face and applying agile
in an effective manner, no
more lost data, no disparate
systems, no lack of critical
analytics regarding the health and
philosophy project. See if yourself
get a free copy for
five users in one project
at tellerik.com/team pulse. And please
do thank tolerance for supporting
Hansel minutes on their Facebook
fan page, facebook.com/t L E
R I K Keller. We
do appreciate it. There wouldn't
be a Hansel minutes. If
there wasn't, Tellerik helping us
well, what do you, how
do you that problem? Like,
did you, did you get
an email from Gawker media
this week? Yeah. Yes, no,
actually I didn't get an
email, but I did. LinkedIn
was kind enough to say
you might have used the
same password on LinkedIn that
you had for comments. And
it, it got me to
change my LinkedIn password. Right.
And I couldn't remember if
I'd ever signed up for,
I mean, I read life,
hacker, Gizmodo, reading gadget. I
read all those, but I
don't know if I've ever
made a comment. Exactly. I
didn't even know I had
an account there. So for
those of you who are
listening, I may not be
familiar with this. A hacker
group hit a conglomerate, a
company called Docker Gaw, K
E R Gawker media, who
is the owner of a
bunch of blogs, like life
hacker and give motives cause
Moto. So they're kind of
a holding company for blogs,
but they're not very big.
Like they're, they're big in
the sense of, there's a
lot of popular blogs that
with names you'd recognize, but
they're, they're not big in
the sense that they obviously
don't have a very large
it department. They're probably a
pretty small company, you know,
I guess maybe a couple
hundred people, if not less,
probably. So they got nailed
this week by a hacker
group that literally stole a
copy of their database and
actually coding horror. Jeff Atwood
had a very good blog
post about all the things
that were wrong with this,
but ultimately they posted all
of our email addresses and
passwords. So they were literally
storing our passwords in clear
text in their database. So
you got an email from
LinkedIn. I got an email
from Hulu, from Netflix saying,
we have detected that, you
know, you used your email
address and set that up.
So I went and changed
my passwords everywhere. Yeah. And
I'm thinking I should probably
go changing that. Here's the
part, here's the bad part
that I don't know what
password I used it go
here. So I don't know
if I should change my
passwords at 25 places. It
certainly shows a big problem
with a number of things.
Identity on the web is
broken. Everyone uses the same
password, I guess like the
word monkey was in the
top 10 passwords used. Yeah.
I think one, two, three,
four, five, six was one
of the top ones. Yeah.
Yeah. Password password with an
add sign for the a,
I don't know why monkey
was in the top 10,
but so What about something
like, I mean, not to
stray off topic here, but
what about something like last
pass? W what are your
feelings on like totally use
last pass? I do too,
but I still, I don't
use it the way that
they probably want me to
use it. Like they probably
want me to generate some
password that I don't even
know what it is Because
that, but then when you're
out and about somewhere with
your iPhone, you're not going
to be able to get
on, Or you have to
log into last pass. You
have to go to the
page and say, show me
the copy and paste. It
it's a total thing. No,
it was password management solution.
That's that's reasonable. But the
point I wanted to make
was that here's a company.
Let's just call them a
small company because I don't
know how big they are.
That is successful clearly. Cause
we all read these websites,
but they made a mistake
at an it level. Was
it okay for them to
have made that mistake when
they were five people or
two guys in a garage?
At what point do you
start to tighten the screws
and be serious about the
business? Should, what if this
happened to a one person
company? Well, well, the thing
is right is, is it's
almost like you should have
known better. Right? Well, hindsight
is always 2020. They should
have known Pastors in the
Clare. I mean, I, I
do, I do small projects
for nonprofit agencies and stuff,
and I'll never do that.
I'll always encrypt stuff or
hash it, or That's the
obvious thing, but there could
have been, you know, let's
say that you do all
those things that you could
still get nailed somehow. Right.
You know, you're still good,
but the auditing and the
fixture, they have had security
reviews. Like at what size
should accompany start to turn
the screws and make their,
it practices best practices. It
probably takes something like this
to make it happen. I
mean, it's a sad as
that sounds, but I mean,
we've all been in the
room when we're trying to
explain to a manager or
something that look, this is
just the right way to
do this. And they say,
well, how, you know, how
much time is that going
to take? And you say
40 hours. And they say,
well, we can't charge the
client for that. Or we
can't, we can't, you know,
bill this company for this
work. And you know, that's,
we're too small to do.
I mean, I don't know.
I don't know if there's
like a, a hundred is
the number or 500, but,
but literally it takes, it
always takes something like this
for someone to go, Oh
shoot. Yeah. Somebody warned me
about this. We had an
issue of trying to remember
who we had on the
show recently, a couple of
weeks ago was talking about
standards. It was Steve Sanderson.
He was talking about knockout
JS knockout JS is a
JavaScript library that lets you
put HTML five attributes on,
on HTML elements and use
JavaScript to data bind. And
he made the comment that
it'll work on ISX, but
we don't. We know that
I used to on five
doesn't work on Isaacs. And
he says, well, you know,
it won't validate, but he
said, I've never had an
it person tell me that,
you know, I care more
about validation H validates GML
than about the business problem,
you know? And, and you
bring up an interesting point
that, you know, you, you
go and you talk to
the boss, you know, the
suit, whoever they are. And
you explain the situation and
you say, here's the risk
we're going to do X
and it'll cost this much.
We're going to do, Y
it'll cost that much more.
Why is more secure? Which
do you want? They're going
to make a decision. It
may not always be there.
And in a bigger company,
they are a lot more
likely to listen to those
kinds of things. So smaller
company, 20, 30 people, you
say 40 hours, they instantly
think, wow, I'm charging $200
an hour for you, 40
hours. That's a ton of
loss revenue for something that
might not even happen. Whereas
in a bigger company, you
might say that's 125 hours
and nobody even blinks. They're
like, yeah, that's the right
way. That's what you should
do. I'm sure that obviously
that, that probably doesn't happen
sometimes as well, even in
bigger companies, but especially around
the software markets that you
know, you and I were
working in securities, probably one
of the biggest concerns. I
will say that definitely when
I was working at, there's
only a couple of hundred
people. We had Greg Hughes,
who's the host of run
ass radio. I was one
of the main security guys.
Definitely not screwing around. Like
when you're working with the
fed and working with all
the regulators that are crawling
around, I told a story
once about how I received
some customer data, like in
an email and they wipe
your machine. Yeah, exactly. So,
you know, right. I mean,
I just, literally, I kind
of joke about it, but
it was effectively, I stood
up, I put my hands
up in the air, I
didn't touch my machine and
I called for help. And
they came and they like,
they, you know, they did
the whole, And there's that
moment of, Oh no. Why
did you send me this?
Yes, exactly. And, but that
the process was in place
and they nuked the machine
and they nuked every machine
that machine ever looked at,
you know, they did the
complete chain of custody and
it was a buddy and
it was like a bummer,
but it was good that
we had that in place.
Yeah. Because then it takes,
I mean, it takes away
all reason of doubt from
you. I mean, there's no,
nobody can ever say that,
Whoa, that might've been on
his machine or Right. But
it brings up an interesting
question though, when we do
work on the side, you
know, like you've mentioned that
you did a little, little
nonprofit business here and there,
and I've done a little
work on the side with,
you know, small consulting gigs
and stuff, but we're starting
as small businesses as, as
one and two person, you
know, side shops to use
cloud services. Like you use
some invoicing software, right? Like
I've used simply build.com. The
stuff that I've used is,
has been Google docs. I
mean, it's pretty simple. Right?
Well, but see, I use
storing credit cards, you know,
those kind of the question
like when you bring it,
but you know what I'm
saying, when you think about
a small company of one
person or a 10 person
company who uses all these
different cloud services, there might
be someone who has, let
me reframe me phrase it
this way. You're a small
consultancy that before you worked
in your current job, you
had 20 people you said,
right. But that was years
ago. Right. Right. If that
exact same company, that exact
same size, we're starting up
now, some large number half
or more possibly all of
the services that it used
would be in the cloud.
Oh yeah, totally. How do
you know then if those
services are not themselves small
businesses with bad practices, storing
credit cards and passwords, Well,
you totally, you don't. And,
and then, and even with
you say, Oh, well, it's
Google, but you know, Google's
not impervious to any of
this either. Right? Sure. I
mean, hopefully you help. And
you, you really want to
assume and think that, Oh,
well, Google knows what they're
doing. Maybe they just gotten
really lucky so far, or
maybe they do know what
they're doing. Google won't goof
it up as much as,
you know, Fred's personal invoicing
system dot, but it brings
up an interesting point because
now you're distributing the risk
amongst a bunch of other
folks that are also small
businesses. It makes me wonder
what's next in the sense
of is someone, you know,
if like PayPal or QuickBooks
or some small system that
is used by thousands, where
does that risk get distributed?
Like if someone gets sued,
someone gets nailed. Like, what
do you do? Do you
go to your client and
say, Hey, my small client,
the upstream cloud-based invoicing provider
that I use with storing
credit cards, I, I, if
that was something that happened
to me, I think I
would have to obviously be
honest and go forward to
them and say, this event
has happened. Here's what I
know. Here's what they did.
I mean, what, what can,
how can I make you
feel better? But is there
some way to mitigate that?
Right? Like, so why not
ask them for a copy
of their security policy or
their privacy? I'm sure all
that stuff is in the
terms and conditions that we
all gloss over or would
we just, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Except, And what you just
said, I think is the
point that we all gloss
over. I think that the
fact that we distribute those
things now as small businesses
and smaller companies means that
we shouldn't gloss over them
like you and I, and
people who are listening, who
are doing micro ISB should
audit those services that they
use and just take, it's
kind of like, you know,
once a year you change
the, you change the power.
What do you call it?
The batteries on your smoke
detectors, and you turn your
clocks back. Maybe you should
go and audit the services
that your company uses and,
and just take a day,
get those, get those policies
and make sure that they're
in line with what you
want to provide to your
customers. Even then, it's not
a guarantee though, right. But
don't you think that the
doing it is better than
the not doing it. Like
you're basically, I'm looking at
you, you have kind of
like a, I just don't
know that I'm even qualified
to do that. I don't,
I mean, other than read
some legalees or something and
try to interpret what somebody
says they're going to do
or how they say they
operate. Yeah. But the key
there is true that what
they write down may not
be necessarily what they're doing.
But I think that they
do the, the consciousness of
it is the point that
being conscious and saying, here's
my workflow client comes in,
I put his, you know,
our or qualified lead comes
in. I put that into
this application in the cloud,
salesforce.com or whatever sure. Client
becomes a qualified lead. And
then I start to sell
the client. I start to
invoice them with whatever, simply
bill.com or Fred's invoicing. And
then those payments come in
via PayPal. So, you know,
client personal information is moving
from machine to machine cloud
system to cloud system. Let
me give you another example.
I was at my chiropractor
this afternoon, and I was
noticing as we were sitting
in his office that he
had Excel documents sitting on
his desktop, you know, I
wasn't at them, but I
saw the Excel icon and
it crossed my mind. I
wonder if my social security
number is sitting on this
guy's machine that he bought
at office Depot and what
is my right, or what
should I do as a
consumer with this small business
who is a growing business,
right? If it was a
chain, a chiropractic chain, they
would have an it department
that would have locked all
this stuff down. But at
what point does that happen?
Right? How many people do
we interact with on a
regular basis, have our personal
information sitting in their email
or on their, their desktop
and to our original point
at the beginning of this
whole show, how big is
the point where that starts
to really matter? Again, I
think it is bad as
it sounds. I think it
takes something has to happen
to, to make somebody wake
up and smell the coffee.
That bothers me. That, that,
like, you're basically saying until
something goes wrong. No, one's
going to say anything. I
mean, people didn't probably install
smoke alarms until houses started
burning down. Right. I mean,
Yeah. Well, that's true. This,
this brings up actually the,
the, the backup issue that
I had last week, you
remember my car drive crashed
your SSD. Yeah. And I
mentioned on Twitter that, you
know, backups always work. It's
restores that fail. I actually
had a comment in my
blog today where someone questioned
that I was lying about
the restore because they had
never really had a restore
succeed. They'd had all these
backups, but, you know, restoring
just never quite works out
for them. Well, think, I
mean, how many times I've
heard it a million, not
a million, but I've heard
it more than 10 times
of, Oh yeah. We have
a backup policy and I've
actually heard people say, have
you ever tried to do
a restore? And there's that
awkward pause and people say,
what do you mean? So
I've worked at two companies.
I can think of that.
That I, you know, I'd
ask the question is all
this backed up? And people
would say yes, and then
some catastrophic event would happen.
And before, you know, it,
people are like looking at
your temporary internet files, you
know, they're, they're grasping it.
How do we get this
data back? How do we,
you know, something's lost. I
was talking to some guys
at Microsoft that run a
large website. And many, many
years ago, this website went
down and basically it went
down because the SQL server
failed and they had dropped
some, basically someone was poking
around there weren't things in
place. And someone dropped a
table and, you know, horrific
things happen in a week
later, the site became back
up and all the processes
were put in place. And
when they were talking to
the forensics guy afterwards and
they said, well, what should
we have done? Because the
forensics guy was poking around
on the hard drive, trying
to figure out how we
could get this table back.
And he said, if you
delete something that is so
crucial, so important that it
can't be deleted. If you,
if you find yourself in
that situation, you said, pull
the power cord, pull the
power cord. Don't let that
hard drive, right. Another bite,
because then you want to
melt that hard drive, read
only and poke around a
four. It turned out that
after this bad thing happened,
the person who did it
ended up trying to do
a bunch of other stuff.
And it was, it was
in the stumbling around that
they basically erase their evidence.
It's kind of like, you
know, I've dropped something in
a pile of powdered sugar
on the ground. So I'm
going to stomp around on
it, trying to find my
lost contact lens. Totally. Everything
goes bad. And they destroyed
all the evidence and pounded
on, on the desk. Gotta
put those processes in place.
Yeah. I think that if
a small company, a small
company should think about this
kind of stuff now, before
they become big companies. Yeah.
And I think small companies
need to realize that there's
just a certain cost to
do business and just being
responsible, you know, acting in
a responsible way. And maybe
it's not all about what
our books look like. Right.
It's it's about, are we
doing the right thing for
our clients? Are we doing
the right thing for our
employees? There's just costs involved
with doing business. I mean,
sometimes it's a new monitor
sometimes it's time. Sometimes it's
something else, but Yep. Sometimes
it's auditing your security system
in reading legal aid, just
to make sure that you've
done it at least one.
And that's kind of where
a small company has been
so focused on the bottom
line sometimes it's because you
don't even know it, but
they're barely making payroll. Yeah.
Well, thanks John backdoor for
talking to me about that
transition between small, medium and
large companies. I know I've,
I've made that transition and
you've made that transition and
it's, it's definitely an interesting
ride. I wonder what my
next company will be someday
in the future, whether it
will be bigger or smaller
than the Microsoft. I appreciate
your time. Thanks, Scott. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and I'll see
you again next week.